Anyone can get skin cancer. Many spots people find on their skin are not cancer. But some might 
be cancer or pre-cancer. Skin cancers can often be found early when they may be easier to treat. 
You can help by checking your own skin. 
Checking your skin and getting it checked by a doctor or nurse is important for everyone. 
But these checks are even more important if you have a higher risk of skin cancer. 
Know Your Risk for Skin Cancer
Talk to your doctor about your risk and 
how often you should check your skin. 
Here are some risk factors that can 
make a person more likely to get 
skin cancer:
•  Being exposed to ultraviolet (UV) light 
from spending time in the sun or using 
tanning beds 
•  Having many moles
•  Having fair or lighter skin, freckles, 
and light hair
•  Having a history of skin cancer in 
your family
•  Having a weak immune system
•  Getting older 
How to Do a Skin Check 
Many doctors tell their patients to 
check their skin once a month. Skin 
checks are best done in front of a full-
length mirror. A handheld mirror is also 
helpful. Make sure the room is well lit. 
You may need a spouse, partner, or 
close friend or family member to check 
your back and scalp.
Face the mirror
•  Check your face, ears, neck, chest, and 
belly. Women will need to lift their breasts 
to check underneath.
•  Check the skin under your arms, both 
sides of your arms, and the tops and palms 
of your hands. Also check between your 
fingers and under your fingernails.
Sit down
•  Check the front of your legs, tops of your 
feet, in between your toes, and under your 
toenails.
•  Use a hand mirror to look at the bottoms of 
your feet and the backs of your legs.
•  Use the hand mirror to check your 
buttocks, private (genital) area, lower and 
upper back, and the back of your neck and 
ears. It may be easier to look at your back 
in the wall mirror using a hand mirror.
•  Use a comb or hair dryer to part your hair 
so that you can check your scalp. 
Checking Your Skin for Signs of Cancer 
!
What to look for 
It is hard to know if a change in your 
skin might be cancer. Here are some 
things to look for. Finding one or more 
of these things does not mean you have 
cancer, but that you should be checked 
by a doctor.
•  A new or changing growth, spot, lump, or 
bump on the skin
•  A sore that bleeds or doesn’t heal
•  A rough or dry red area on your skin, which 
might crust or bleed
•  New itchiness, soreness, or pain
•  A rough bump 
•  A mole (or other spot) that’s new or 
changing in size, shape, or color
•  A mole with an odd shape, uneven edges, 
or areas of different colors
•  Spread of the color of a mole outside the 
edge of the mole
•  Redness or new swelling outside the edge 
of the mole
•  Change in the surface of a mole – scaliness, 
oozing, bleeding, new lump or bump. 
If you find something new or 
different during a skin self-exam
•  Draw a circle around the area with a 
marker or pen. 
•  If your phone has a camera, take a 
picture of it.  
•  Make an appointment to have a doctor 
look at it. The only way to know if it is skin 
cancer is to talk with an expert. 
For cancer information, day-to-day help, and support, call the 
American Cancer Society at 1-800-227-2345 or visit us online 
at www.cancer.org/skincancer. We’re here when you need us. 
©2021, American Cancer Society, Inc. 
No. 080801
Models used for illustrative purposes only.
cancer.org  |  1.800.227.2345
