Ultraviolet (UV) light can be harmful to your skin. In fact, most skin cancers are caused by 
being exposed to too much UV light. UV light mainly comes from the sun. But it can also come 
from tanning beds and sun lamps. There are things you can do to help limit how much UV 
light you and your family are exposed to.
Stay in the shade.
Staying in the shade is one of the best ways 
to help limit UV exposure. Try to stay out 
of direct sunlight between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m., when UV 
light is strongest. This is true any time of year as UV rays 
reach the ground no matter the season!
Tip: Use the shadow test to see how strong the sun’s rays 
are. If your shadow is shorter than you are, the sun’s rays 
are the strongest.  
Wear clothes to cover your skin. 
Long-sleeve shirts, long pants,
or long skirts cover the most skin and
are the most protective. Some clothing is made with
UV protection. 
Children need special attention in the sun. They tend 
to spend more time outdoors and burn more easily. 
Babies younger than 6 months old should be kept 
out of direct sunlight. They should also wear hats and 
protective clothing. Check with your baby’s doctor 
before using sunscreen as some experts don’t think 
that sunscreen should be used on infants.
Use sunscreen and apply
it correctly.
Sunscreen can help protect your skin
from the sun’s UV rays. Use products with broad-
spectrum protection (against both UVA and UVB rays). 
And choose a sunscreen with a sun protection factor 
(SPF) of 30 or higher. 
Be sure to check the expiration date. Sunscreen is 
usually good for 2 to 3 years. And don’t forget to protect 
your lips by using a lip balm with sunscreen.
Apply enough sunscreen to fully cover your arms, legs, 
neck, and face. Any other areas that are exposed to the 
sun should have sunscreen applied as well.
Sunscreen needs to be put on at least every 2 hours, 
but check the label to be sure. Sunscreen can wash off 
when you sweat or swim and wipe off with a towel. So, 
sunscreen may need to be reapplied more often, even if 
it is “water resistant.”
Remember that sunscreen is just a filter. It does
not block all UV rays. Use it along with other steps
to protect yourself.
How to Protect Yourself and 
Your Family From the Sun
Wear a wide brim hat.
Be sure that your hat protects your eyes, 
forehead, nose, scalp, and ears. A hat with a 2- or 3-inch 
brim all around is best. 
Wear sunglasses that block both 
UVA and UVB rays.
Large-framed and wraparound sunglasses 
that block at least 99% of UVA and UVB rays protect 
best. Children need smaller versions of protective adult 
sunglasses. Do not use toy sunglasses.
Avoid tanning beds, booths,
and sun lamps.
Tanning devices can cause long-term skin 
damage and increase your risk of skin cancer. 
Even with sunscreen, you should limit the amount of 
time you spend in the sun. Sunscreen does not block 
all UV rays. 
For more information and answers, visit the American Cancer Society website at 
cancer.org/sunsafety or call us at 1-800-227-2345. We’re here when you need us.
©2024, American Cancer Society, Inc. 
No. 0808.00 Rev. 6/24
