Treatment for skin cancer is different for each person. If you’ve been diagnosed with skin cancer, 
your treatment will depend on the type of skin cancer you have, how big and deep it is, and if it has 
spread to other parts of your body. Some people get one type of treatment. Other people might 
need more than one type of treatment. Talk to your health care team about what is best for you.
Surgery 
Surgery is often used to treat skin 
cancer. It can help figure out if you 
have cancer, what type it is, and if it has 
spread. Surgery may be done to remove 
the cancer and to make the site where 
it was removed look better. The kind of 
surgery you might need depends on the 
type of skin cancer, how big it is, and 
where it is. 
The most common side effects are pain, 
infection, and having a scar at the site 
of the surgery.
Radiation Therapy 
Radiation uses high-energy rays (like 
x-rays) to kill cancer cells in a part of 
the body. Radiation can be used to treat 
cancer that’s just on the skin or that has 
spread to other parts of the body. 
The most common side effects are 
skin changes and hair loss where 
the radiation is given. Your skin may 
become red, swollen, flaky, or darker. 
You may also feel very tired. 
Immunotherapy 
Immunotherapy helps your immune 
system find and fight cancer. It may 
be given as a shot into a vein in your 
arm, or as pills or capsules that you 
take by mouth. 
Side effects of immunotherapy depend 
on the type of medicine used to treat 
the skin cancer. You may feel tired, sick 
to your stomach, or have a fever, chills, 
or rashes. Side effects are usually mild 
but can be severe.
Targeted Therapy 
Targeted therapy finds and attacks 
cancer cells while causing less harm to 
normal cells. These medicines change 
the way cancer cells grow, divide, or 
repair themselves. They are given by 
mouth as pills or capsules or might be 
given as a shot into a vein in your arm. 
Targeted therapies cause different side 
effects depending on the medicine 
used. Some can affect the skin and 
cause rashes, dryness, and itching. 
Your skin may also be more likely to 
get a sunburn. 
Skin Cancer Treatments 
Local or Topical Treatments 
Freezing, light therapy, or lasers may 
be used to treat some cancers. Other 
times, topical chemo or other drugs 
are used by rubbing them right on 
the skin. Local treatments are mostly 
used to treat basal and squamous cell 
skin cancers. 
Each treatment has different side 
effects. Ask your doctor about what 
to expect. 
Chemotherapy (chemo) 
Chemo uses medicines to fight cancer. 
Most of the time, chemo is given as a 
shot into a vein in your arm. Or, chemo 
might be taken by mouth as a pill or 
capsule. Other times, it may be rubbed 
on the skin. When it’s given as a pill 
or into a vein, chemo travels to most 
parts of the body to treat cancer that 
has spread. When it’s put on the skin, it 
stays in the area where it’s rubbed in 
to treat cancer in that spot. 
The most common side effects of 
chemo are feeling very tired or being 
sick to your stomach. Chemo may 
also make it easier for you to get an 
infection. 
Clinical Trials 
Clinical trials test new medicines or 
treatments in people. They help doctors 
find better ways to treat cancer. If your 
doctor talks to you about a clinical trial, 
it’s up to you whether to take part. And 
if you do sign up for a clinical trial, you 
can stop at any time. 
Treatment may be different for each person 
with skin cancer. Before starting any 
treatment, ask your health care team what to 
expect. It is important to know how you will 
feel during and after treatment. That way, 
you can make the best choice for yourself.
For cancer information, day-to-day help, and support, call the American Cancer 
Society at 1-800-227-2345 or visit us online at cancer.org/skincancer. 
We’re here when you need us.
©2021, American Cancer Society, Inc. 
No. 080798 
Models used for illustrative purposes only.
cancer.org  |  1.800.227.2345
