Anyone can get skin cancer. Many spots people find on their skin are not cancer, but some might be 
cancer or pre-cancer. Skin cancers can often be found early when they may be easier to treat. 
If you notice a change in your skin, your doctor will need to do an exam to check it. If the change 
looks like it might be cancer, your doctor will need to do a test or procedure to find out if it is cancer. 
And if you have skin cancer, your doctor may use a procedure to treat it. 
Tests to Find Skin Cancer
A biopsy is done to check for cancer. A 
skin biopsy is a minor surgery where a 
part (sample) of a spot that might be 
cancer is removed. The sample is sent to 
a lab and looked at under a microscope 
to see if there are cancer cells. 
The kind of biopsy your doctor needs to 
do depends on the type of skin cancer 
it might be. The doctor also looks at the 
size of the area and where it is on your 
body to help decide what biopsy to do. 
Your skin will be numbed so you don’t 
have pain during the biopsy. You will 
be told how to care for the biopsy site 
afterward. 
Shave biopsy: The doctor shaves off 
the top layers of skin with a blade. An 
ointment, chemical, or small electrical 
current will be used to stop any bleeding. 
Punch biopsy: A tool that looks like 
a tiny round cookie cutter is used to 
remove a deeper sample. The edges 
of the biopsy site are often stitched 
together.
Excisional and incisional biopsy: 
The doctor uses a surgical knife to cut 
deeper into the skin. A wedge of skin 
is removed. The edges of the biopsy 
site are usually stitched together. An 
excisional biopsy removes the whole 
tumor. An incisional biopsy only 
removes a part of the tumor. 
Lymph node biopsy: It’s not common 
for some skin cancers to spread, but it 
is possible. A lymph node biopsy might 
be done to see if cancer has spread to 
your nearby lymph nodes. This biopsy is 
more involved than those that remove 
the spot. It may be done using a very 
thin needle. Or the doctor may decide 
to remove the whole lymph node. 
Tests and Procedures to 
Find and Treat Skin Cancer 
Procedures to Treat Skin Cancer
There are different procedures that 
might be used to treat skin cancer. The 
procedure used depends on the type, 
size, and location of the skin cancer. 
Your skin will be numbed so you don’t 
have pain during the procedure. You will 
be told how to care for the treatment 
site afterward.
Excision: For this procedure, the cancer 
and some normal skin around it are cut 
out with a surgical knife. Sometimes, 
the edges of the skin are stitched back 
together, but this depends on how big 
the cut needs to be.
Curettage and electrodesiccation: The 
cancer is removed by scraping it with a 
long, thin tool. The area is then treated 
with an electric needle to destroy any 
cancer cells that might be left. 
Mohs surgery: The doctor removes thin 
layers of the skin one at a time. Each 
layer is looked at under a microscope. 
If cancer is seen, then another layer of 
skin is removed. This is repeated until 
no cancer cells are seen. This procedure 
is used when there is a high risk the skin 
cancer will come back after treatment. 
It is also used when the doctor isn’t sure 
how much skin cancer there is. And it may 
be used to keep as much healthy skin as 
possible for cancers near certain areas 
like the eye, middle of the face, ears, or 
fingers. Stitches might be needed after 
the procedure to help the area heal.
Skin grafts: If a large skin cancer is 
removed by surgery, there may not be 
enough nearby skin left to stitch the 
wound together. In these cases, skin 
can be taken from another part of the 
body (graft) to cover the wound and 
help it heal. Skin grafts may also make 
the area look better. 
These procedures are just some of the ways to treat skin cancer. Your doctor may also 
want you to get other types of treatment, such as immunotherapy, targeted therapy, 
chemotherapy, or radiation therapy. Treatment will depend on the type of skin cancer 
you have, how big and deep it is, and if it has spread to other parts of your body. 
Talk to your health care team about what is best for you.
For cancer information, day-to-day help, and support, call the American Cancer 
Society at 1-800-227-2345 or visit us online at www.cancer.org/skincancer. 
We’re here when you need us.
©2021, American Cancer Society, Inc. 
No. 080802
Models used for illustrative purposes only.
cancer.org  |  1.800.227.2345
